self_employed_insta_top_up


Overview – Insta Top-up Loan for Self-employed
Are you looking for additional funds to tide over the current challenging times? Don’t’ worry. Being a part of the ICICI HFC family, you can avail Insta top-up loan instantly.

Our Insta Top-up Loan can provide you instant financial support to fulfill any personal or business obligations that you may currently have. It can be availed at competitive interest rates and you pay it back in upto 10 years in case of instant top-up on housing loan or non-housing loan. 

Just walk into any of your nearest branch and our experts will guide you through the process and answer all your questions.

Key Features & Benefits – Insta Top-up Loan for Self-employed
Easy documentation
It is very easy to avail Insta top-up Loan from ICICI HFC if you are an existing customer of ICICI HFC as your details would already be present with us.

Loan to fulfil all your needs
Current challenging times may demand additional funds for various needs. You can avail an instant top-up on your existing housing loan or non-housing loan.

All existing loan customers eligible
Our Insta Top-up Loan is designed to help both salaried individuals like government employees and corporate professionals, so also, self-employed individuals like traders, small business owners, doctors, lawyers and CAs. Whether your need is big or small, we finance them all.

Quick loan disbursal
Being an existing customer, most of the checks would already have been done. To speed up your instant top-up loan application process, we have a team of legal and underwriting experts to help you at each of your nearest branch of ICICI HFC. These experts can review your application on the spot so that you do not have to make multiple visits.

Eligibility - Insta Top-up Loan for Self-employed
To avail of Insta Top-up Loan, you must have made payments on your existing loan for at least 18 months. In case you want to understand this condition better or are looking for a better solution, please walk into any of your nearest ICICI HFC branch and our expert will guide you. 

How to apply

In case you wish to apply for Insta Top-up Loan, walk into any one of your nearest ICICI HFC branch to get all the help you need. Our team of experts can assist you through our quick and easy top-up loan application process.

Documents Required for Insta Top-up Loan for Self-employed
We require very few basic documents from you to complete the application process. 

Self-employed
Fully filled application which you have signed
Identity and residence proof (KYC)
Income proof: last one-month bank statement