prime

ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan - Overview
Experience the joy of owning your dream home with the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan. Our loan offers a salaried or a self-employed individual the opportunity to secure a loan amount of up to ₹5 crore.

We understand the importance of convenience and efficiency, which is why our Prime Home Loan comes with attractive interest rates and a quick and hassle-free processing. If you have already found your dream property and want to check your eligibility, simply give us a missed call on 80974 59555. In just a few easy steps, we will provide you with an interim sanction letter via WhatsApp.

Key Features of the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan
Our loan covers various transaction types, including:
Purchase of a ready-built house or flat
Purchase of an under-construction property (limited to RERA-registered projects only)
Self-construction on an owned plot
Balance transfer of the above transaction types
Avail ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan today and enjoy the below benefits
Loan amounts start as low as ₹20 lakhs and go up to ₹5 crore*
Easy digital process with an interim sanction letter in under 3 minutes*
Simplified documentation that saves your time and effort
Flexible eligibility norms
Onboarding assistance through our dedicated relationship manager
Attractive interest rate
Flexible tenure options
Faster processing
Quick disbursal 
Eligibility Criteria for the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan
At ICICI HFC, our vision making the dream of owning a home a reality for millions of Indians.That is why we offer home loans with flexible eligibility criteria and minimal documentation requirements.

 Parameter                                     	  Salaried Individuals              	  Self Employed              
Maximum Loan Amount	₹5 crore	₹5 crore
Maximum Tenure	20 Years	20 Years
Minimum Age	23 Years	28 Years
Maximum Age	60 Years	65 Years
Maximum FOIR	60% - 70%	80%
Loan-To-Value Ratio (LTV)	
As per Regulatory Guidelines

As per Regulatory Guidelines

Minimum Income	₹ 25,000 per month 	ITR Filed with Tax Liability (above taxable limit)
Benefits of Adding a Co-applicant for the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan
Higher Loan Amount: By adding a co-applicant/s, such as your spouse, parent, or blood relative, you can increase your loan eligibility. The combined income and creditworthiness of all financial applicants are taken into account, allowing you to qualify for a higher loan amount.

Please note: The financial co-applicant’s eligibility norms are the same as those for the primary financial applicant.





Documents Required for the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan
 
The documents required to avail the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan are as follows:

Documents	Salaried Individuals	
Self-Employed

Proof of Identity	
PAN Card(mandatory), Aadhaar card, Passport, Voter ID Card

PAN Card(mandatory), Aadhaar card, Passport, Voter ID Card
Proof of Address 	Aadhaar card (mandatory), Passport, Voter ID, Driving License, Utility bills, etc	
Aadhaar card (mandatory), Passport, Voter ID, Driving License, Latest utility bills, etc

Proof of Income	Last 3 months’ salary slips, Bank statement for the last 6 months	Proof of business existence, Bank Statement, Income Tax Returns (ITR) for the last 3 years
For the KYC (Know Your Customer) process, a PAN card is as proof of identity.

Why Choose ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan?
Loan Amount
Attractive Interest Rate
Flexible Repayment Options
Zero Hassles
Easy Documentation Process & Quick Disbursal
Customer Support






1. What is the maximum loan amount that I can avail with ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan?
You can avail a loan amount of up to ₹5 cr.



2. What documents do I need to apply for this loan?
To apply for the ICICI HFC Prime Home Loan, you will need the following documents:
Proof of identity: PAN card, Aadhaar card, or Passport
Proof of address: Aadhaar card (mandatory), Passport, Voter ID, Driving License, latest utility bills, etc.
Proof of income:
For salaried individuals: Last 3 months' salary slips, Bank statement for the last 6 months
For self-employed individuals: Proof of business ,bank statement, Income Tax Returns (ITR) for the last 3 years.


3. What are the benefits of adding a co-applicant/s to my loan application?
Adding co-applicant/s helps you get a higher loan amount at attractive interest rates. The co-applicant can be your spouse, parent, or other close relative, and their income is considered alongside yours, increasing your chances of qualifying for a higher loan amount.

