salaried_plot_loan


Overview – Plot Loan for Salaried
Looking to buy a plot of land today to construct your dream home but you are facing difficulties to get a loan due to nature of your business or not having adequate income proofs? ICICI HFC can finance to make your dreams come true. You can take a plot loan from us of up to ₹ 1 Crore and give your family their dream home they deserve. Enjoy competitive land loan interest rates during your tenure and walk into any of our 230+ ICICI HFC branches to meet a friendly local expert who will help you get a loan.

Key Features & Benefits – Plot Loan for Salaried
Easy Eligibility
It is simple to get a plot loan from ICICI HFC as we have easy eligibility norms and require few basic documents. Even if you don’t have formal income proof documents such as ITR, our local experts are trained to assess your income so that they can help you determine the amount for the loan for land purchase, you can comfortably repay. To increase your eligibility, you can even add a co-applicant, who could be your spouse or immediate family member.

Loans for all aspiring homeowners
Our plot loan helps both salaried individuals like government employees and corporate professionals, as well as self-employed individuals like doctors, lawyers, CAs, traders and small business owners. We are committed to financing your dream of constructing and owning a home of your own.  

Quick loan disbursal
At every one of the 230+ branches of ICICI HFC, we have a team of legal and technical experts to help you. These experts can review your application on the spot and answer all your questions face to face, so that you do not have to make multiple visits. 

Interest rates
Even if you already have a plot loan, you can shift to ICICI HFC to reduce your EMI burden and get undivided attention from our experts. You can get competitive land loan interest rate options with us. You can shift your plot loan to ICICI HFC with our Balance Transfer facility and join the ICICI HFC family.

Homes of different types
Whether your need is big or small, we finance them all. You can get a plot loan of up to Rs 1 crore to purchase a vacant plot for construction of a residential house. You can get a loan for a plot in popular areas such as talukas that have easy access to hospitals, schools, and markets.A land loan can be taken for the purchase of a plot through direct allotment as well as for purchase of a resale plot. 

Eligibility - Plot Loan for Salaried
Nationality

Indian, residing in India

Age Limit (Primary applicant)

23 years to 60 years for resident Indians

Co-owned Property

ICICI HFC provides better interest rates to women to encourage them to apply as co-applicants. If you add your wife or mother to your home loan, you may be able to get a lower interest rate, even if they are not earning.

Co-applicant
Age Limit

18 years to 65 years

Why should you add a co-applicant?

If you want to increase your plot loan eligibility, you can add a co-applicant, even if they are not earning. This can also help you to be eligible for a larger plot loan. Your co-applicant can be your spouse or immediate family member.

Because ICICI HFC provides better interest rates to women to encourage them to apply as co-applicants.

Why take a loan from ICICI HFC?
Meet your neighborhood specialist
Wide network, undivided attention
Quick and easy loan processing
A rewarding experience like no other
Quick support for your future needs
Where to apply
Walk into any one of our ICICI HFC branches to get all the help you need. Our neighbourhood experts can assist you through our quick and easy plot loan application process. We require very basic documents and offer you flexible eligibility norms. Click here to find your nearest branch.  If you don’t have an ICICI HFC branch near you, walk into your nearest ICICI Bank branch to start your loan application process.

How to apply
Take 10 minutes to submit your land loan application form along with the required documents
Pay a non-refundable login fee of ₹ 5000 plus GST to complete your KYC checks 
Get your loan application quickly reviewed by our team of experts who study your existing EMIs, age, income, and property
Get a loan amount approved and sanctioned by our team of experts who are present at every ICICI HFC branch.
Pay a processing fee equal to 1.00% + AT or ₹11,000 + AT (whichever is higher)
 

Documents Required for Plot Loan for Salaried
Complete your loan for the land purchase application process with minimal time spent.  Carry the important documents mentioned below to complete your application process without having to make multiple visits. Our team of experts are present at every one of our ICICI HFC branches to help review these documents carefully and quickly and get your loan application approved.

Fully filled application which you have signed
Identity and residence proof (KYC), such as Aadhaar, PAN card, Voter ID card, Job card issued by NREGA etc.
Income proof, such as last 2 months salary slip, latest Form 16 and three-month bank statement
Property documents (unless you have not finalised a property)
In order to avail of a plot loan from ICICI HFC, you must provide a written undertaking that states that the construction of your home will be completed within 3 years after taking a plot loan. 

Charges for Plot Loan for Salaried
You have a right to know exactly how much you will need to pay for your plot loan and when. You can find below the list of charges and rates applicable. We make it a point to be transparent about how our plot loan works, so you can rest easy with the support of the local experts who sit out of our branches. 

Charges	Rates*
Login/Application Fee (for KYC checks and other documents, before loan is approved)**	₹ 5,000 + GST @18%*
Processing/ Administrative Fees (Charged at the time of sanction)**	0.75% of the loan amount or ₹ 11,000, whichever is higher*
Full Prepayment/Foreclosure Charges	The foreclosure/prepayment charges on the facility/loan shall be NIL.
** Login fees and Processing/Administrative fees are non-refundable

* The above amounts & percentages are exclusive of applicable taxes and other statutory levies, if any such amounts shall include all amounts prepaid during the given financial year.

# Goods and Services Tax (GST) and other government taxes, levies, etc. applicable as per the prevailing rate will be charged over and above these charges.

Disclaimer: 

The rates, fees, as stated hereinabove, are subject to changes/ revision from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Home Finance Company. 
The floating interest rate on ICICI Home Finance is linked to the ICICI Home Finance Company Prime Lending rate (IHPLR). 
FAQs



1. What is a Plot Loan?
Even before laying the foundation of your dream house, you have to invest in the land on which you will build your house. A plot loan is the financial backing that you can get from ICICI HFC for acquiring a piece of land on which you can construct your home.


2. How is a plot loan different from a home loan?
Home loans from ICICI HFC are to finance investment in the properties that are built on a plot of land, be it under-construction or ready-for-possession, a single house or a multi-unit property. But a plot loan is to invest in the vacant plot of land on which you can build your home the way you need to. 


3. Can I take a plot loan along with a home loan?
No, you cannot take a plot loan and a home loan for the same plot of land or for the same property.


4. What is the maximum amount that I can take as a loan?
ICICI HFC offers plot loans of up to 1 crore.



5. Can a plot loan finance an investment in any plot, anywhere?
The land loan or plot loan can be financed only within municipal limits of pre-specified locations or, in cases of direct allotment by the concerned development authority, outside municipal limits. 


6. What are my plot loan tenure options?
At ICICI HFC the tenure of your plot loan can be up to 25 years. However, the tenure cannot exceed the retirement age of the customer.


7. When can I apply for a plot loan?
You can apply for a plot loan from ICICI HFC once you have chosen the plot of land on which you want your home to be built. The loan can help you with financing the investment in this plot of land. 


8. What is a Balance Transfer?
In case you have already availed of a plot loan from any other financial institution and are looking to shift to ICICI HFC, we offer the option of transferring the remaining principal of your loan to us.




9. Do I get any tax benefits on a plot loan?
No, plot loans do not offer tax benefits. However, home loans do.


10. How many years can I keep the plot of land before starting construction?
In order to avail of a plot loan from ICICI HFC, you must provide a written undertaking that states that the construction of your home will be completed within 3 years.