salaried_balance_transfer

Overview – Balance Transfer for Salaried
Already have a home loan but feeling the pressure of making EMI payments?

Find the deal you deserve with ICICI HFC.  

Our Balance Transfer facility allows you to shift your existing home loan to ICICI HFC. Become a part of the HFC family to enjoy exciting benefits like faster loan processing, better interest rates, flexible and easy eligibility norms and access to neighbourhood experts.  

The process for your Home Loan Balance Transfer to ICICI HFC should be easier as you already have a home loan from another financial institution; there are certain steps you can skip which are typically involved during procuring a new home loan. 

Key Features & Benefits – Balance Transfer for Salaried
Loan amount
From ₹ 3 lakhs up to ₹ 5 crores

Comfortable repayment period/ tenure
Up to 25 years

Flexible repayment options
Step Up Repayment Facility (SURF)
(Where your EMI increases as your income increases)

Equated Monthly Instalments (EMIs)
(Where you pay a fixed amount every month, even when your income increases)

Easy eligibility norms
Both salaried individuals like government employees and corporate professionals, as well as self-employed individuals like doctors, lawyers, CAs, traders and small business owners can apply

Homes in different areas
Under-construction or ready-to-move-in property
New or resale property
Property developed by State Housing Boards such as DDA and MHADA, by private developers or an existing Co-operative Housing Society, Apartment Owners' Association, Development Authorities settlements or homes by private developers
Builder-constructed or self-constructed property
Plot for future construction
To refinance a residential property
Property in cities, gram panchayat or regularised colonies, including multi-unit property
For construction on a freehold/leasehold plot or on a plot allotted by a Development Authority
Eligibility - Balance Transfer for Salaried
To be eligible to transfer your Home Loan to ICICI HFC, you must fulfil these three conditions:

You are currently paying higher interest and are looking for some relief
You have paid EMIs for your existing home loan
2 reasons to add a co-applicant to your Balance Transfer application

If you want to increase your home loan eligibility or be eligible for a large loan amount, add an earning co-applicant- be it your spouse or immediate family member
Because ICICI HFC provides better interest rates to women to encourage them to apply as co-applicants
Documents Required for Balance Transfer for Salaried
In addition to the documents you submitted to apply for your existing home loan, keep these 3 documents handy:

A letter on the letter head of your existing lender stating the list of Property Documents you have submitted to them
Latest outstanding Balance letter from your existing financial institution on their letter head
Photocopy of your property documents
Why take a home loan from ICICI HFC?
We have a wide network of 230+ ICICI HFC branches where you can meet a friendly face
Each branch has a team of local experts who are familiar with your locality
Each branch has a team of legal and technical experts who can review your application quickly
Our experts work with you to determine your income even without formal income proofs like ITR
You can get special offers and deals at our branches. Walk in to find the deal of the day
And last but not least…
The Family Factor!
As an existing customer of ICICI HFC, your application can be reviewed more quickly, as many checks are already done, and your documents are already in our system
Today, you may need a loan to own a home of your own. But tomorrow, if you are expanding your business, or looking for an FD to grow your savings, we can help you
Charges for Balance Transfer for Salaried
Charges	Rates*
Login/Application Fee (for KYC checks and other documents ,before your transfer is approved)**	₹ 5,000*
Processing/ Administrative Fees (Charged at the time of sanction)**	
0.75% of the loan amount or ₹11,000, whichever is higher*

Full Prepayment/Foreclosure Charges	The foreclosure/prepayment charges on the facility/loan shall be NIL.
Conversion Fee	0.50% of the loan amount, plus applicable taxes*
Disclaimer: The rates, fees, charges etc. as stated herein above are subject to changes/revision from time to time. Pre- Payment/Foreclosure charges shall be applicable as per contracted rate or rates as per regulatory norms prescribed, if any.

** Login fees and Processing/Administrative fees are non-refundable

* The above amounts & percentages are exclusive of applicable taxes and other statutory levies, if any such amounts shall include all amounts prepaid during the given financial year.

# Goods and Services Tax (GST) and other government taxes, levies, etc. applicable as per the prevailing rate will be charged over and above these charges.

Disclaimer:

The rates, fees, as stated hereinabove, are subject to changes/ revision from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Home Finance Company
The floating interest rate on ICICI Home Finance is linked to ICICI Home Finance Company Prime Lending rate (IHPLR). 
