self_employed_top_up

Overview – Top-Up for Self-Employed
Looking for some financial help but don’t know how to get it? Why go anywhere else when you are already part of the ICICI HFC family?

Tap into the true value of your most important asset – your home- with ICICI HFC Top Up loans.

A top-up loan offers you some extra financial support for you to fulfil any personal or business needs that arise when you are paying off your home loan. A Top Up loan can help you meet the other financial obligations you have so

Whether it is:

To increase your home loan amount
Your child’s education or marriage
An urgent requirement of cash for your business or even
Necessary home renovations or furnishing
Buying consumer durables or furniture
For a major purchase like a vehicle or vacation
We, at ICICI HFC, understand that life doesn’t stop when you invest money in your home and need extra financial aid for various personal reasons. If you already have a home loan from another financial institution, you can get a Top Up when you shift your Home Loan to ICICI HFC using our Balance Transfer (BT) facility. 

Key Features & Benefits – Top-Up for Self-Employed
Easy eligibility
It is simple to get a Top Up Loan from ICICI HFC if you have been a customer of ICICI HFC for at least one year as your details would already be present in our system. Even if you don’t have formal income proof documents such as ITR, our local experts are trained to assess your income so that they can help you determine the loan amount you can comfortably repay. To increase your eligibility, you can even add a co-applicant, who could be your spouse or immediate family member.

Loans for all homeowners
Our Top Up Loan helps both salaried individuals like government employees and corporate professionals, as well as self-employed individuals like doctors, lawyers, CAs, traders and small business owners. Whether your need is big or small, we finance them all. 

Quick loan disbursal
Being an existing customer, most of the checks would already have been done. At every one of the 230+ branches of ICICI HFC, we have a team of legal and technical experts to help you. These experts can review your application on the spot and assess your repayment history on the spot, so that you do not have to make multiple visits. 

Easy transfer
Even if you already have a home loan, you can shift to ICICI HFC to reduce your EMI burden and get undivided attention from our local experts and competitive interest rates. You can shift your home loan to ICICI HFC with our Balance Transfer (BT) facility and apply for a Top Up as well.

Eligibility - Top-Up for Self-Employed
To avail of a Top Up loan you must have made payments on your existing home loan. In case you want to understand this condition better or are looking for a better solution, walk into any of our 230+ branches and our experts will help you. 

Self-employed
Nationality

Indian, residing in India

Age Limit(Primary applicant)

28 years to 70 years

Co-owned Property 

ICICI HFC provides better interest rates to women to encourage them to apply as co-applicants. If you add your wife or mother to your home loan, you may be able to get a lower interest rate, even if they are not earning.

Co-applicant
Age Limit

18 years to 65 years

Why should you add a co-applicant?

If you want to increase your home loan eligibility, you can add a co-applicant, even if they are not earning. This can also help you to be eligible for a larger home loan. Your co-applicant can be your spouse or immediate family member.

Because ICICI HFC provides better interest rates to women to encourage them to apply as co-applicants.

Why take a loan from ICICI HFC?
Meet your neighborhood specialist
Wide network, undivided attention
Quick and easy loan processing
A rewarding experience like no other
Quick support for your future needs
Where to apply
Walk into any one of our ICICI HFC branches to get all the help you need. Our neighbourhood experts can assist you through our quick and easy home loan application process. As an existing customer of ICICI HFC, we already have your records in our system. Beyond that, we will require very basic requirements for you to fulfil. Click here to find your nearest branch.  If you don’t have an ICICI HFC branch near you, walk into your nearest ICICI Bank branch to start your loan application process. 

How to apply

Take 10 minutes to submit your loan application form along with the required documents
Pay a non-refundable login fee of ₹ 5000 applicable taxes to complete your KYC checks 
Get your loan application quickly reviewed by our team of experts who study your existing EMIs, age, income, and property
Get a loan amount approved and sanctioned by our team of experts who are present at every ICICI HFC branch.
Pay a processing fee equal to 0.75% of the loan amount or ₹ 11,000 applicable taxes, whichever is higher
The approved loan amount will be disbursed, basis the value of your home.
Documents Required for Top-Up for Self-Employed
We require very few basic documents from you to complete the application process. Along with the standard documents needed to apply for a Home Loan, you would need to submit your EMI receipts for your existing Home Loan for at least 12 months. 

Self-Employed Individuals
Fully filled application which you have signed
Identity and residence proof (KYC), such as PAN card, Voter ID card, Aadhaar etc.
Income proof, such as latest 2 income returns, latest two years P&L accounts and B/S (with schedules), six-month bank statement etc.
Property documents 
Self-Employed Non-Individuals
Fully filled application which you have signed
Identity proof (KYC), such as PAN card, copy of GST registration, AOA, MOA of company etc.
Income proof, such as latest 2 income returns, latest two years P&L accounts and B/S (with schedules), six-month bank statement etc.
Property documents 
Charges for Top-Up for Self-Employed
You have a right to know exactly how much you will need to pay for your Top Up loan and when. You can find below the list of charges and rates applicable to your loan. We make it a point to be transparent about how our loans work, so you can rest easy with the support of the local experts who sit out of our branches. 

Charges	Rates*
Login/Application Fee (for KYC checks and other documents, before loan is approved)**	₹ 5,000 + GST @18%*
Processing/ Administrative Fees (Charged at the time of sanction)**	0.75% of the loan amount or ₹ 11,000, whichever is higher*
Full Prepayment/Foreclosure Charges	The foreclosure/prepayment charges on the facility/loan shall be NIL.
Disclaimer: The rates, fees, charges etc. as stated herein above are subject to changes/revision from time to time. Pre- Payment/Foreclosure charges shall be applicable as per contracted rate or rates as per regulatory norms prescribed, if any.

** Login fees and Processing/Administrative fees are non-refundable

* The above amounts & percentages are exclusive of applicable taxes and other statutory levies, if any such amounts shall include all amounts prepaid during the given financial year.

# Goods and Services Tax (GST) and other government taxes, levies, etc. applicable as per the prevailing rate will be charged over and above these charges.

Disclaimer: 

The rates, fees, as stated hereinabove, are subject to changes/ revision from time to time at the sole discretion of ICICI Home Finance Company. 
The floating interest rate on ICICI Home Finance is linked to the ICICI Home Finance Company Prime Lending rate (IHPLR).
FAQs


1. Why do I need a top-up loan?
We provide low interest Top-up loans to avail funding for needs such as furnishing your home, child’s education or wedding, buying a vehicle, family holiday, buying consumer durables, etc. Or even as an additional financing over and above your home loan. This additional amount will be disbursed using your property as collateral.


2. When can I apply for top-up on a home loan?
You need to have had your ICICI HFC Home Loan for at least 12 months to apply for a Top Up. If you already have a home loan with another financial institution, you can avail of a Balance Transfer loan and move to ICICI HFC if you have made payments on your existing Home Loan for at least 2 years. 


3. Why do I have to wait for 12 months after the disbursement of the home loan?
A minimum of 12 months of payment on the existing home loan is required for our legal and technical experts to ensure you are comfortably being able to repay your home loan EMIs. We do not want you to take on any pressure and that is why our experts will assess your repayment capacity and existing EMIs before disbursing your Top Up loan.



4. What is the maximum amount that can be availed as a top-up?
ICICI HFC ensures that you achieve your desired goals without feeling stressed. You can avail a Top Up loan of up to ₹ 1.5 crore for your requirements.




5. What is the interest charged on a top-up loan?
We strive to offer the lowest interest rates on our Top Up loans. The interest rates on Top Up loan will be 1% higher than the Balance Transfer interest rate.


6. What can I use my top-up loan for?
ICICI Top Up loans can be utilised for various personal requirements like:

Furnishing/renovating your home
Buying consumer durables/ furniture
Your child’s education cost
Your child’s marriage expenses
Family holidays
Buying a new vehicle


7. What is the tenure of an ICICI HFC top-up loan?
At ICICI HFC the tenure of your Top Up loan can be up to 20 years. However, the tenure cannot exceed the retirement age of the customer. 



8. Will there be a processing fee?
A processing fee of 0.75% of the loan amount or ₹ 11,000, whichever is higher, will be charged to avail a Top Up loan.


9. Can a top-up loan be availed with a balance transfer loan?
Even if you already have a home loan, you can shift to ICICI HFC to reduce your EMI burden and get undivided attention from our local experts and competitive interest rates. You can shift your home loan to ICICI HFC with our Balance Transfer (BT) facility and apply for a Top Up loan as well, on which the rate of interest is 1% higher than the BT rate.


